  The best way to approach designing software is a more Agile state of mind. First you should identify the requirements of the project you're working on. Talking to the person that you're designing the program for, figuring out what features they want to implement into the program and taking notes. Asking questions and further leading them to give you more details that you might need in order to implement the things they want to do with the program. Figuring out what exactly the program needs to do and accomplish. From there you need to start the process of designing the parts of the full program to fit these criteria. I would start with one section of the program, designing the individual parts to be as modular as possible and as isolated as possible so that you can more easily test the parts. 
   After you have designed the modular parts of the section of the program it is important to test the varying logic of that part of the program. Testing if it does its calculations correctly, checking to see if it performs in the manner you expected it to. Checking the far edge cases and the various logic of the lines of code to ensure that they are functioning properly, whether it's with error codes or in an environment of correct input/options. At this stage you then go into putting the parts together to form the full section and that will require further testing to make sure that those indiviudal parts are function together in the manner that is to be expected. By doing this multi stage process and consistently checking the work to make sure that the parts are working and functioning as they should, you can prevent a lot of common mistakes and bugs that could otherwise plague your software if you do no testing at all.
